HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 are two versions of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol, the communication protocol used for transmitting data over the web. While HTTP/1.1 has been around since 1999, HTTP/2 is a more recent protocol introduced in 2015. Here are the key differences between the two:

Performance:

HTTP/1.1: In HTTP/1.1, multiple requests from a client to a server 
  typically require separate connections. This can lead to inefficiencies
  and increased latency, especially for websites with many resources to load.
HTTP/2: HTTP/2 addresses this issue through features such as multiplexing, header 
  compression, and server push. Multiplexing allows multiple requests and responses 
  to be sent and received over a single connection simultaneously, reducing latency
   and improving overall performance.


Header Compression:

HTTP/1.1: Headers in HTTP/1.1 are sent as plaintext and are not compressed. 
  This can result in redundant data transmission, especially for large headers
  or repeated headers across multiple requests.
HTTP/2: HTTP/2 uses header compression, which significantly reduces the size of
 headers sent over the wire. This helps in reducing overhead and improving 
 performance, especially for requests with large or repeated headers.


Server Push:

HTTP/1.1: In HTTP/1.1, servers can only respond to client requests. If a client
  needs additional resources after receiving the initial response, 
  it must send additional requests to the server.
HTTP/2: HTTP/2 introduces server push, a feature that allows servers to push 
  additional resources to the client before the client requests them. This can help 
  in reducing latency and improving performance by preemptively sending resources 
  that the client is likely to request.


Binary Protocol:

HTTP/1.1: HTTP/1.1 uses a textual format for its protocol messages,
   which can be inefficient to parse and process.
HTTP/2: HTTP/2 uses a binary protocol, which is more efficient to parse and process,
   leading to better performance and reduced overhead.


Connection Multiplexing:

HTTP/1.1: Each resource request typically requires a separate TCP connection, 
  leading to the potential for head-of-line blocking issues.
HTTP/2: HTTP/2 supports multiplexing, allowing multiple requests and responses
  to be interleaved and sent over a single connection. This improves efficiency 
  and reduces latency by avoiding the overhead of establishing multiple connections.

In summary, HTTP/2 offers significant performance improvements over HTTP/1.1 by introducing features 
such as multiplexing, header compression, server push, and a binary protocol. It aims to address the 
limitations of HTTP/1.1 and provide a more efficient and optimized protocol for modern web applications.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Objects and Their Internal Representation in JavaScript

In the realm of JavaScript, objects are ubiquitous. They are fundamental to the language and play a 
crucial role in representing data and defining the structure of programs. Despite their prevalence, 
understanding how objects work internally can sometimes be challenging. In this blog post, we'll delve
 into the fascinating world of objects in JavaScript, exploring their internal representation and 
 shedding light on some key concepts.

What are Objects in JavaScript?
In JavaScript, objects are collections of key-value pairs where keys are strings (or Symbols) and values
 can be any data type, including other objects. They are versatile data structures used to represent 
 complex entities, encapsulate data, and define behavior through methods.

Copy code
// Example of an object in JavaScript

        const person = {
          name: 'Rajagopal',
          age: 29,
          address: {
            city: 'Chennai',
            country: 'INDIA'
          },
          greet: function() {
            console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.name}.`);
          }
        };


Internal Representation of Objects
  Under the hood, JavaScript engines utilize various techniques to represent objects efficiently. 
  While the specifics may vary between different engines, there are some common concepts to understand:

Property Lookup:
  When accessing properties of an object, JavaScript engines perform a property lookup. This involves 
  traversing the prototype chain, starting from the object itself and moving up through its prototype 
  chain until the property is found or until the end of the chain (i.e., the prototype is null).

Property Descriptors:
  Each property in JavaScript objects is associated with a property descriptor, which defines attributes 
  such as value, writable, enumerable, and configurable. These descriptors determine how the property 
  can be accessed and modified.

Hidden Classes and Inline Caching:
  JavaScript engines often use hidden classes (also known as shapes or maps) to optimize property access.
  When an object is created or modified, the engine assigns it a hidden class based on its structure. 
  This allows for efficient property access by utilizing inline caching techniques.

Object Representation:
  Objects in JavaScript can be represented using various internal data structures, including dictionaries,
  hash tables, or specialized data structures optimized for certain use cases (e.g., arrays, typed arrays).

Object Creation Patterns
  JavaScript provides multiple ways to create objects, each with its own advantages and use cases:

Object Literals:
 The most common way to create objects, using curly braces {} and defining properties
 and methods inline.

Constructor Functions: 
  Functions that are used as constructors with the new keyword to create objects. 
  These functions typically set up object properties and methods using this.

ES6 Classes: 
  Syntactic sugar over constructor functions, providing a more familiar class-based syntax for defining 
  objects and their behavior.
s
Conclusion
 Objects are the building blocks of JavaScript, enabling developers to represent complex data structures
 and define behavior in their programs. Understanding how objects are internally represented and accessed 
 by JavaScript engines is crucial for writing efficient and performant code. By grasping these concepts, 
 developers can leverage the full power of objects in JavaScript and build robust and scalable applications.